

                           --- ================= ---
                                 NUMPTY PHYSICS
                           --- ================= ---

    (See http://numptyphysics.garage.maemo.org for up-to-date information.)

Harness gravity with your crayon and set about creating blocks, ramps, levers,
pulleys and whatever else you fancy to get the little red thing to the little
yellow thing.

Numpty Physics is a drawing puzzle game in the spirit (and style?) of Crayon
Physics using the same excellent Box2D engine. Note though that I've not
actually played CP so the experience may be very different. Numpty Physics
includes a built-in editor so that you may build (and submit) your own levels.

Numpty Physics is released under the GPL.

Comments, questions, flames and levels to numptyphysics@gmail.com.

Home page: http://numptyphysics.garage.maemo.org/
Project page: http://garage.maemo.org/frs/?group_id=638

========== ---
EXTRA LEVELS
========== ---

Solved all the levels? You can download a collection of user-submitted
levels from ,,NP-complete``, the online level repository:

    http://numptyphysics.garage.maemo.org/levels/

=========== ---
GAMEPLAY
=========== ---

Keys:

    stylus              draw a new stroke
    space or enter      pause/unpause physics
    esc (back arrow)    undo last stroke
    q                   quit
    r or up             reset level to initial state
    n or right          skip to next level
    p or left           go to previous level
    e or fullscreen     edit mode

Hints:

Each stroke is like a rigid piece of wire with a mass proportional to its
length. A closed stroke is just a wire bent into a shape, it has no substance
apart from its perimeter.

The ends of a strokes can (and will) join onto other strokes when drawn near
enough to another stroke. These joints are pivots so you can use this to build
levers, pendulums and other mechanical wonders.

Jointed strokes don't collide with each other. Join both ends to make a rigid
structure.

===== ---
EDITING
===== ---

Keys (in addition to the play mode keys):

    e or fullscreen     leave edit mode
    s or menu key       save to ~/MyDocs/Games/NumptyPhysics/L99_saved.nph
    zoom-minus + stylus delete stroke at point
    zoom-plus + stylus  drag stroke at point

Hints:

It's handy to pause the physics when making a new level though this is by no
means necessary. Sometimes it is handy to let the physics run for a little bit
just to let the items settle down.

From the editor palette you can choose the crayon colour and then additional
properties such as:

  * ground (earth arrow) - stroke is fixed in place.
  * sleeping (Zzz) - stroke is not subject to physics until bumped by
    something else.
  * decorator (dashed D) - stroke is not part of the physical world.
    eg: tutorial text.

You should make sure that your level has at least one red item (player token)
and at least one yellow item (goal item).

Token strokes will only join to other token strokes. Goal strokes will only
join to goal strokes. Other strokes will happily join to any non-token non-goal
strokes.

If this is your first time, you may need to restart the game for your saved L99
to show up.

If you wish to be clever, edit the level file directly - it's just a simple
text format.

Editor bugs: There is not yet any provision to name your level but you can just
rename the file to anything.


